* StepItUp Freetail Hack 2020
* Problem: Over the past few months, we have been faced with a worldwide pandemic. As a result, our day to day lives have been altered drastically. Whether it be being under lockdown, taking a prolonged break from work, or being home from school, staying active has been a common problem we have seen people encountering as the days seem to drag on. Picking ourselves up and pushing our bodies to move appears to have been put on the back burner as we struggle to grasp with our constantly changing circumstances and the stress of financial, social, and mental burdens weighs on us heavier and heavier.
* Solution/The Process: Hoping to reverse this slump we have recently found ourselves engaged in, we have created an app called StepItUp, which is primarily focused on motivating users to get up and walking by competing with fellow friends to see who can walk the most at the end of each week. Coins are earned for each step users walk which can later be used to purchase items to design their own personalized avatars, ultimately providing a fun and competitive experience to encourage users during this pandemic to remain healthy and active. Your steps are tracked within the app by collecting data from your phone’s IOS HealthKit.
* Implementation (front end and back end): In terms of implementation, we used Amazon Web Services to manage our back end resources. Using the EC2 cloud compute service that they offer to host an instance of our REST API server that we coded in Python in tandem with the provided Relational Database Service to host our MySQL database. On the front end, we used Apple’s Xcode to code our UI design in Swift, using a blend of Storyboard and Programmatic implementation for the visual layout, and a series of web requests for the frontend-backend connection.

Link to demo: https://youtu.be/RPxNIg-FJ5M
* Collaborators: Jonathan Yuan, Natalie Wang
